we have discussed three types of asymptotic notations.
Big Oh; Big Omega and big theta
Out of these which one is more accurate.
Big Oh or Omega or Theta
Theta notation is more accurate because if I tell a
particular function takes big O(n^2) time, What it
means is I'm not sure exactly how much time this
particular function takes but I guarantee that it will not
grow beyond n square time functions.
It can be smaller than n square, it
Maybe n, it maybe logn etcetera
Similarly if I tell a particular function takes omega of
one time it means that I am not sure exactly
how much time this particular function takes
But I guarantee that it will always be greater than
me
It can be square root of n, it can be
logn etcetera
But when we say the particular function takes theta of
n time
What It means that I am 100% guarantee that this
particular function takes exactly n time
It will not be bigger than or smaller than n
it is exactly n
So out of all these three which one is more
accurate. It is theta
So as being discussed earlier whenever analysing the time complexity
of an algorithm always try to find the average bound
that is theta notation
If you found the exact time function for the average
bound represented with theta notation. If not, go for upper
bound or lower bound. That's it